# BSc-final-project-
This document is an explanation to my BSc's project MATLAB codes. These codes are based on the conventional method of designing an axial compressor. This method is changed in a way to design a contra-rotating axial compressor.

main:
In this section, each function that represents a part of the design process is called. In the main body of the code, it is ensured that the input Mach is not high at the tip of the blade. If the input Mach is high, the first two functions will be executed again. Then, functions will be run. These functions goals mentioned below:
getinformation:
This function is called at the beginning of the program's execution and its task is to collect the necessary information for the compressor design from the user. This function does not take any input and as soon as it is called, it receives information from the user. The outputs of this function include: the temperature and static pressure of the inlet air, the mass flow rate, the pressure ratio, the isentropic efficiency, the specific heat ratio, the universal gas constant, the specific heat, the axial velocity of the flow, the rotational speeds, the ratio of the root radius to the tip, and the number of sections to be considered in a blade.

annalus:
This function partially determines the geometry of the machine at inlet. It performs almost the first step of the design process. The inputs of this function include the temperature and static pressure of the inlet air, mass flow rate, pressure ratio, isentropic efficiency, specific heat ratio, universal gas constant, specific heat, axial velocity of the flow, rotational velocities, and ratio of root to tip radius. The outputs of this function include the polytropic efficiency, static pressure and static temperature at the inlet, inlet air density, tip radius, blade tip speed, relative velocity at the blade tip, inlet Mach number of blade tip, root radius, mean radius, static and stagnation pressure and temperature at the outlet, outlet fluid density, outlet area, and blade height in the final stage which are provided to the user as output.

calc_stages:
The main task of this function is to calculate the number of compressor stages and the overall temperature increase of the machine and the temperature increase of each stage. This function performs almost the second stage of the design process. The inputs of this function are the inlet air static temperature, the constant pressure ratio, the axial velocity of the flow, the rotational speeds, the mean radius, and the exit static temperature. The outputs of this function include the increase in the overall temperature, the mean rotor speed of odd-numbered stages, the mean rotor speed of even-numbered stages, the vector of rotational speeds, the inlet and outlet relative velocities at the mean radius of the first rotor, the relative inlet and outlet flow angles at the first rotor, the number of stages, and the vector of temperature increases for each stage.

mean_radious:
The main task of this function is to perform calculations related to flow angles at the mean radius and to obtain dimensionless parameters in the rotors. This function almost performs the steps related to the third stage of the design process. The number of stages, the constant pressure heat constant, the temperature increase in different rotors, the mean radial velocity in odd and even rotors, the axial velocity of the flow, the inlet air static pressure and static temperature, the isentropic efficiency of the machine, and the ratios of heat constants of air are the inputs of this function. The outputs of this function include: the tangential velocity at the mean radius at the inlet and outlet to the blade, the difference between these two velocities, the inlet and outlet relative and absolute flow angles at the mean radius, the flow deflection angle in the rotor, the De-Haller number at the mean radius, the exit static pressure and static temperature from the rotor, the loading coefficient for each rotor, the flow coefficient, and the work coefficient.

angles:
The main task of this function is to obtain the flow angles at the inlet and outlet of the rotor blades at all desired radii and also to determine the tangential component of the flow velocity at the inlet and outlet of the blade. The inputs of this function include the number of rotors (stages), the number of radii to be investigated, the exit static temperature, the axial velocity of the flow, the constant pressure constant, the exit static pressure of the flow, the ratio of constant pressure to constant volume constants of air, the universal gas constant, the compressor outlet area, the mass flow rate, the mean radius, the rotational speeds, the tangential velocities at the mean radius at the inlet and outlet, the temperature increase in each rotor, the work coefficient, the root radius, and the tip radius. The outputs of this function include the static temperature and pressure at the rotor exit and the density of the exiting air, the blade height at the exit, the root and tip radii at the midpoint of the blade, the blade height at the midpoint, the matrix of investigated radii, the linear velocities at the investigated radii, the tangential velocities at the inlet and outlet at the investigated radii, and the differences of these velocities and the absolute and relative flow angles at the inlet and outlet of the blade at the investigated radii.

blades:
This function is used to obtain the number of blades, the blade angles, and the blade deflection in each rotor and at each radius. The steps performed by this function are almost equivalent to the fifth stage of the contra-rotating compressor design process.
The inputs of this function are the relative flow angles at the inlet and outlet at different radii and at the blade mean-radius, the blade height, the matrix of radii, the mean radius, the number of stages (rotors), and the number of blades to be investigated at the blade height.
The outputs of this function include the number of blades in each rotor, the distance between two consecutive rotors at different radii and at the mean radius, the blade length at different radii and at the mean radius, the ratio of the distance between two consecutive rotors to the blade length at the investigated radii and at the mean radius, the blade angles at different radii, the blade turning angle, the blade angle of incidence, and the ratio of the blade height to the chord length at different radii.


etha
The main task of this function is to obtain the pressure factor and efficiency. The seventh stage of the design is performed in this function. The inputs of this function include the relative angles of the inlet and outlet of the blade at different radii, the tangential velocity difference at the inlet and outlet of the blade at different radii, the axial velocity, the ratio of the distance between two consecutive blades on a rotor to the chord length at different radii, and the ratio of the blade height to the chord length. The outputs include the pressure factor, overall drag coefficient, helical drag coefficient, secondary drag coefficient, lift coefficient, and efficiency.


Convert
This function converts some variables that are in radians to degrees. It also provides the pitch angle.
Plots
The task of this function is to plot the graphs that are mentioned in the results section of thesis. The variables for which the graphs are plotted based on the radius and rotor number include deviation angle, curvature angle, number of blades, pressure ratio of each rotor, blade height and angle of attack. 
